# Ideas for data storytelling

Note: Both ideas are outlined below #1 and #2

1) What makes a San Francisco neighborhood desireable?
2) How have Bay Area IPO's affected the San Francisco real estate market?

## You

What do you care about?

I have a long career in real estate.

What do you know about?

I have very deep real estate knowledge in both residential and commercial real estate with an emphasis on San Francisco Bay Area real estate.

What decisions do you face?

Understanding the real estate market dynamics so that I can advise buyers and sellers.

## Seven templates

Training Kit (https://learn.lambdaschool.com/ds/module/recedjanlbpqxic2r) explains the seven templates from Priceonomics.

Can you apply the templates to your topics? 

1. Geographic Variation

1) Ranking San Francisco neighborhoods by desireablity.
2) Comparing Bay Area IPO's and real estate values to national metrics.

2. Trend related to the news

1) High home prices in San Francisco are a constant news item both locally and nationally.
2) IPO's are a very popular news item both locally and nationally.

3. Who does that?


4. Answering a question people care about

1) Virtually all buyers and sellers of real estate in San Francisco are interested in neighborhood home values.
2) Many people have a fascination with the incredible wealth generated by IPO's and how that money is spent.

5. Valuable to businesses

Residential real estate businesses are interested in both questions while retail businesses are looking to locate in or near neighborhoods that match their customer base.

6. What's the most popular?

1)  What the "best" neighborhood in San Francisco?

7. Cost/Money rankings

1)  What's the most expensive neighborhood in San Francisco?

## Misconceptions

What misconceptions do people have about your topic?

The projects may produce results that do no meet common perceptions

## Examples

What data storytelling example inspires you?


Could you do a new hypothesis, for the same question?


Could you do a new question, for the same topic?


Could you do a new topic, with the same "style"?


## Data

Where could you search for data about your topic?

I have access to MLS data for residential real estate information.  San Francisco also has "San Francisco Open Data" which provides raw data from several areas of the County and City government.  There appear to be several sites with IPO data.

# Assignment!

Fill out the above template *twice*, for two different ideas.

Then compare and contrast and select one as the idea you're leaning towards
working on for your project week.
